License
=======

Usage
-----

The software requires a valid, up to date license in order to operate properly. Some details of the license are reminded here, but the terms that apply to you are those you signed.

Do not hesitate to contact us to request an evaluation license (see :doc:`contact`)!

License file
------------

The license file is a text file containing printable characters. It contains all the information :doc:`reference/qdbd` requires to verify the validity of your license.

The file must be accessible by each :doc:`reference/qdbd` instance on each node in the cluster. Other executables do not require a license file.

The license file is for your exclusive usage and may not be be given to a third party.

.. _license_expiration:

Expiration
----------

The :doc:`reference/qdbd` will remind you of your license expiration date, if any.

When your quasardb license expires:
 #. You may continue to use quasardb.
 #. Any running qdbd daemons will function normally.
 #. Any new qdbd daemons you start will fail to boot.
 #. You are not eligible for upgrades or dedicated assistance.
 #. You may report bugs at `bug@quasardb.net <bug@quasardb.net>`_,

Please contact your Bureau 14 representative to renew your license (see :doc:`contact`).

Scope of the licensed rights
----------------------------

Software Use
++++++++++++

Provided the Client has paid the applicable license fees, BUREAU 14 grants the
Client a non-exclusive, non-transferable right to load, store, execute and
modify (only as described in the Documentation) (“Use”) the object code
version of the Software specifically limited to the Licensed Configuration as
indicated on the Client’s order form or purchase order (“Order”) when he
purchased the Software.

No Concurrent User may use the Software as a Subscriber unless such Concurrent
User is also an authorized Subscriber and vice versa. The specific conditions
of use of the Software by each type of user are detailed in the Special
Provisions.

Updates and Upgrades
++++++++++++++++++++

Provided the Client has ordered and paid for Product Support, his Use of the
Software includes Updates and Upgrades BUREAU 14 provides to the Client.

Runtime programs
++++++++++++++++

The Client may use Run-time Program(s) and create or alter tables or reports
produced by the Software solely for the purposes of operating the Software.
Run-time Programs(s) used beyond the limitations pursuant to this Agreement
will violate the terms of this Agreement and the Client must cease such use
immediately.

Back-up copies
++++++++++++++

The Client may do a reasonable number of back-up copies for his own archival
purposes

Use restrictions
----------------

Software modification and reverse engineering
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Except as expressly allowed under this Agreement, the Client may not copy
(except for a reasonable number of back-up copies for his own archival
purposes), alter, merge, modify, translate, adapt in any way, or prepare any
derivative work of the Software.

Except as permitted by law, the Client may not reverse engineer, disassemble,
decompile, or otherwise attempt to reconstruct or discover any source code
(other than readily user accessible source code, if any), underlying ideas,
algorithms, file formats or programming interfaces of the Software, or allow
others to attempt any of the foregoing.

The Client may not loan, rent, lease, provide a service for which the Client
charges a fee, license or otherwise transfer the Software or any copy thereof,
to or for the benefit of a third party.  The Client may not delete or change
any of the proprietary rights notices of BUREAU 14 and its suppliers appearing
on the Software or Documentation and the Client agrees to reproduce all such
notices on each copy he is permitted to make under this Agreement.

If you have any doubt about the legitimacy of your usage, do not hesitate contact us (see :doc:`contact`).

Interoperability
++++++++++++++++

In the event the Client needs to provide for interoperability with his own
software or hardware, the Client must first contact BUREAU 14 to receive such
interoperability assistance and the Client will not reverse engineer the
Software on his own.  

Third party software
--------------------

Run-time licenses to certain Software owned or licensed by third parties
(“Third Party Software”) are necessary for the proper operation of the
Software. A list of Third Party Software is available from Bureau 14. The
Client is solely responsible for obtaining the required licenses, sublicenses
or technical support for any Third Party Software, as well as any licenses or
sublicenses for the operating system or other Software necessary to operate
the Client’s hardware platform.

Limitation of liability
-----------------------

The Software is inherently complex and may not be completely free from errors.
It is the Client’s responsibility to verify the Client’s work and make backup
copies. Bureau 14 will not be responsible for the Client’s failure to do so.

In no event will Bureau 14 or Bureau 14’s suppliers will be liable for
special, incidental, consequential or exemplary damages, suffered by any
person including the Client or the Client’s clients, arising out of this
agreement or out of the use of the Software or for services provided by Bureau
14, including, without limitation, damages or costs relating to the loss of
profits, business, goodwill, data or computer programs, even if advised of the
possibility of such damages, or for any similar claim against the Client by
another party. The parties agree that Bureau 14’s third party suppliers will
be a third party beneficiary of this Agreement.

The above exclusion of incidental and consequential damages may not be
enforceable under some applicable laws, so such exclusion may not apply to the
Client. Neither Bureau 14 nor its suppliers will be liable for direct or other
damages hereunder. The Client agrees to the allocation between the Client and
Bureau 14 of liability risk which is set forth in this section and which is
not otherwise allocated or disclaimed by any other section of this agreement.
In no case shall Bureau 14’s liability for money damages exceed the license
fees paid by the Client for the Software.

Indemnifications
----------------

Bureau 14 will defend, indemnify and hold the Client harmless from liability
resulting from misappropriation of any trade secret or infringement of any
copyright or French patent by the Software if the Client (i) notifies Bureau
14 within twenty (20) days of the assertion of any such claim and (ii)
cooperates with Bureau 14 in the resolution of any such claim including
permitting Bureau 14 to control the defense and settlement of such claims.
Bureau 14 shall not be liable for any infringement or misappropriation claims
related to (i) modification of the Software; (ii) combination of the Software
with hardware or Software not supplied by Bureau 14; or (iii) use of other
than the most current version of the Software if the claim could have been
avoided by use of such current version. Bureau 14 may, at its option, (i)
obtain for the Client at Bureau 14’s cost the continued right to Use the
Software; (ii) replace or modify the Software so that it is no longer
infringing but remains functionally equivalent; or (iii) terminate this
Agreement, accept return of the Software and Documentation and refund to the
Client the license fee paid less a reasonable amount for depreciation.

The foregoing states the Client’s sole and exclusive remedy and Bureau 14’s
sole and exclusive liability for any alleged infringement of any third party
property rights.

Intellectual property and ownership
-----------------------------------

All ownership of and title to any intellectual property rights, including but
not limited to copyrights and trade secrets, in the Software belong to Bureau
14 and its suppliers and are protected by French and international copyright
laws, other applicable intellectual property laws, and international treaty
provisions. Bureau 14 owns all rights not expressly granted herein.

Bureau 14 does not wish to receive confidential or proprietary ideas,
suggestions, materials or other information. The Client acknowledges that the
contents of the Support Site, including without limitation, any text,
Software, music, sound, graphics, photographs, video or other material
contained in the Support Site (“Content”), is protected by copyrights,
trademarks, service marks, patents and other laws protecting proprietary
information and trade secrets; therefore, the Client acknowledges that the
Client is entitled only to use this Support Site as set forth in this
Agreement, and may not copy, reproduce, distribute, publicly perform, publicly
display, or otherwise create derivative works from the Content without the
advance written approval of Bureau 14 to do so.




